A Flea, a Grasshopper, and a Leap-frog once wanted to see which could
jump highest; and they invited the whole world, and everybody else
besides to come to see the festival. Three famous jumpers were they,
as everyone would say, when they all met together in the room. 
“I will give my daughter to him who jumps highest,” exclaimed the
King; “for a competition without a prize would not be so amusing.” 
The Flea was the first to step forward. He had exquisite manners, and
bowed to the company on all sides; for he had noble blood, and was,
moreover, accustomed to live close to human beings; and that makes a
great difference. 
Then came the Grasshopper. He was considerably heavier, but he was
well-mannered, and wore a green uniform, which he had by right of
birth; he said, moreover, that he belonged to a very ancient Egyptian
family. The fact was, he had been just brought out of the fields, and
put in a cardboard box.. “I sing so well,” said he, “that sixteen
native grasshoppers grew thin from sheer envy when they heard me. 
And that is how the Flea and the Grasshopper introduced themselves,
and thought they were quite good enough to marry a Princess. 
The Leap-frog said nothing; but because he said nothing, people
thought he was all the cleverer. ; and when the housedog snuffed at
him with his nose, he decided the Leap-frog was of good family. The
old councillor asserted that the Leap-frog was a prophet; for one
could see on his back, if there would be a severe or mild winter.

“I say nothing,” exclaimed the King; “but I have my own opinion,
nonetheless.” 
Now the contest was to take place. The Flea jumped so high that nobody
could see where he went to; so they all said he had not jumped at all;
and that he had cheated.

The Grasshopper jumped only half as high; but he leaped into the
King’s face, and that was ill-mannered. 
The Leap-frog stood still for a long time lost in thought; People
began to think that he would not jump at all. 
“I only hope he is not unwell,” said the house-dog; when, pop! he made
a jump into the lap of the Princess, who was sitting on a little
golden stool close by. 
At this, the King said, “There is nothing above my daughter; therefore
nobody should jump higher than her. But for this, one must possess
understanding, and the Leap-frog has shown that he has
understanding. He is brave and intellectual.” 
And so he won the Princess.
“It’s all the same to me,” said the Flea. “She may have the old
Leap-frog, for all I care. I jumped the highest; but in this world
merit seldom meets its reward. Looks is what people appreciate
now-a-days.” 
The Flea then went to serve abroad in the army, where, it is said, he
was killed. 
The Grasshopper sat on a green bank, and reflected on worldly things;
and he said too, “Yes, looks are everything. A fine appearance is what
people care about.” And then he began chirping his peculiar melancholy
song, from which we have taken this story; and which may, very
possibly, be all untrue.  
