That huge academy, in the middle of the city it stood on first class ground.

In fact… It was almost like it was the center of the world…

image

[Privatized School, Hope Peak Academy]

Collecting the super-first-class high school students of every field, with the purpose of educating them, it was an academy with super privileges granted by the government.

If a student graduated from that academy, it was the same as already being successful… that much was said about it.

Holding a history said to be some hundreds of years, it seems to be an academy with an ongoing tradition of releasing talented individuals with great prospects into various fields.

With the goal of educating this “Hope” that is bearing the country’s future, it is naturally appropriate to call it the “Academy of Hope”.

image

There were 2 requirements for entering that academy…

"You must have taken the entrance exam"
"You must be super-first-class in every field"

There was no recruiting for new students, the academy only permitted students it had scouted from the surrounding area to enroll.

With all that “super” attached to it, in front of that Super amazing academy’s gate…

image

…I stood.

image

Naegi Makoto:

First I think I’ll start with an orthodox introduction…  My name is “Naegi Makoto”.

image

My looks, as you can see, are that of an average normal high school student; There’s no helping that.

My friends are the same…

My personality, skills, grades, there’s nothing special about them.

If you don’t have any special hobbies or plans, or you aren’t a mutant, you can’t stand out.

If you want to know my favorite idol, manga, music or movie…

Just look at the ranking numbers once.  The one at the top is probably my favorite.

Even if you’d call it taking the easy road, the normal of the normal…

…that’s me.

Even from the start, I did an orthodox introduction.  I think that’s a good example of how normal I am…

Well, if I were to say I had a strong point, the only one would be…

That I’m a bit more optimistic than most other people… I think.

image

The normal me, right now…

Is standing in front of the abnormal Hope Peak Academy.

I really have come to an amazing place… Someone like me… Can they really make it at this academy?

As you would expect, I took in this academy's overwhelming presence.

But, it wasn’t impossible for me to come here.  To help you understand that…

First I should explain last night’s “preparations”.
